doc: Adds example for OIDC Workload Azure (#2334)
mongodb/terraform-provider-mongodbatlas: examples/mongodbatlas_federated_settings_identity_provider/azure/README.md

> # MongoDB Atlas Provider -- OIDC Workload Azure

Reviewer: just saw in with the rich diff. This is pretty awesome!

Reviewer 2: what's that?

# MongoDB Atlas Provider -- OIDC Workload Azure

## Dependencies

- Terraform [MongoDB Atlas Provider v1.17.0](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/mongodb/mongodbatlas/latest/docs)
- Terraform [Hashicorp Cloud Init Provider v2.3.4](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/cloudinit/latest/docs)
- Terraform [Hashicorp Azurerm Provider v3.106.1](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azurerm/latest/docs)
- Terraform [Hashicorp Random Provider v3.6.2](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/random/latest/docs)

> - A MongoDB Atlas account with an Organization configured with [Federation Authentication](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/security/federated-authentication/#federation-management-console)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- A MongoDB Atlas account with an organization configured with [Federated Authentication](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/security/federated-authentication/#federation-management-console)
```

  - Get the `federated_settings_id` from the url, e.g., <https://cloud.mongodb.com/v2#/federation/{federated_settings_id}/overview>

## Diagrams

### Simplified OIDC flow

```mermaid
---
title: "Simplified OIDC flow"
---

> sequenceDiagram

Reviewer 4: this is great, having it in code makes it easy for editing in the future.

    autonumber
    participant U as User/App
    participant A as Atlas
    participant Idp as Identity Provider (IdP)

    Note right of A: OIDC is configured and set on the organization<br>issuer_uri=https://{some-idp}.com/
    A->>Idp: issuer_uri/.well-known/openid-configuration
    Idp->>A: {..., "jwks_uri": "jwks_uri"}
    A->>Idp: jwks_uri
    Idp->>A: {keys: [{"kid": kid}, ...]}

    Note right of U: Obtain token
    U->>Idp: get_token(authentication-mechanism)
    Idp->>U: JWT token {"iss": "issuer_uri", sub: "user-identity", "kid": "key-used, ...}

    Note right of A: A database user is registered with idp_id/sub as username
    U->>A: connect(JWT token)
    A->>A: use kid and keys to validate the token<br>lookup sub with registered users
    A->>U: auth ok
```

- Example of `issuer_uri` (1):
  - <https://token.actions.githubusercontent.com/>
  - <https://gitlab.com/>
  - <https://sts.windows.net/{tenant-id}/>
- Example of authentication mechanism (5)
  - username+password
  - two factor authentication
  - certificate
- JWT Token Authentication(8):
  - Can use different fields in the `JWT` to authenticate

> ### OIDC Workload Azure

Reviewer 4: [q] how different is Workforce example?

Author: I have been reading the [docs](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/workforce-oidc/#std-label-oidc-authentication-workforce); however, I'm not sure I understand it.
I believe:
- Workforce is for *humans*:
- Using SAML they can sign in to Atlas via their IdentityProvider for a registered domain with a `sso_url`
- Using OIDC they can use their JWT to access the database, Atlas can be configured with a `client_id` and fetch additional claims from the authorization endpoint

@oarbusi do you know more?

    A->>Idp: jwks_uri
    Idp->>A: {keys: [{"kid": kid}, ...]}

    Note right of VM: A python script (pymongo.py) runs on boot<br>It reads the MongoURI from an env-var<br>The pymongo driver gets the JWT from the metadata endpoint<br>See description below
    VM->>Idp: http://169.254.169.254/metadata/identity/oauth2/token
    Idp->>VM: JWT token: {<br>"iss": "https://sts.windows.net/{tenant-id}", <br>"sub": "{vm_configured_identity}"<br>}

    Note right of A: A database user exist on the organization<br>username: {idp_id}/{vm_configured_identity}
    VM ->> A: connect(JWT token, MongoURI)
    activate A
    A->>A: validate token and lookup database user
    A->>VM: auth ok
    VM->>A: insert record into database
    A->>VM: insert record response
    VM->>A: close connection
    deactivate A
```

- (5) We use terraform to configure a [`user_assigned_identity`](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azurerm/latest/docs/resources/user_assigned_identity) for the VM and use the [metadata endpoint](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity/managed-identities-azure-resources/how-to-use-vm-token#get-a-token-using-http) to obtain the token

>   - See also [pymongo docs](https://pymongo.readthedocs.io/en/stable/examples/authentication.html#mongodb-oidc)

Reviewer 3: consider linking to https://www.mongodb.com/docs/languages/python/pymongo-driver/current/security/enterprise-authentication/#mongodb-oidc instead. we're trying to bring all of the drivers docs to the official docs site

Author: updated in b7a6e0f16a8c698054d8f5448177676575f9fe39

  - The python script is configured by [cloud init](https://cloudinit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/reference/examples.html#writing-out-arbitrary-files) using `custom_data` on the [VM (`linux_virtual_machine`)](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azurerm/latest/docs/resources/linux_virtual_machine)
- (10) Can be configured with terraform variables:
  - `insert_record_database`
  - `insert_record_collection`
  - `insert_record_fields`

## Usage

**1\. Ensure your Azure credentials are set up.**

1. Install the Azure CLI by following the steps from the [official Azure documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli).

> 2. Run the command `az login` and this will take you to the default browser and perform the authentication.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Run the command `az login` and this will open your default browser and perform the authentication.
```

1. Install the Azure CLI by following the steps from the [official Azure documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli).
2. Run the command `az login` and this will take you to the default browser and perform the authentication.
3. Once authenticated, it will print the user details as below:

```shell
⇒  az login
You have logged in. Now let us find all the subscriptions to which you have access...
The following tenants don't contain accessible subscriptions. Use 'az login --allow-no-subscriptions' to have tenant level access.
XXXXX
[
  {
    "cloudName": "AzureCloud",
    "homeTenantId": "XXXXX",
    "id": "XXXXX",
    "isDefault": true,
    "managedByTenants": [],
    "name": "Pay-As-You-Go",
    "state": "Enabled",
    "tenantId": "XXXXX",
    "user": {
      "name": "person@domain.com",
      "type": "user"
    }
  }
]
```

**2\. Ensure your MongoDB Atlas credentials are set up.**

This can be done using environment variables:

```shell
export MONGODB_ATLAS_PUBLIC_KEY="xxxx"
export MONGODB_ATLAS_PRIVATE_KEY="xxxx"
```

**3\. TFVARS**

> Create a file named `vars.auto.tfvars`

Reviewer 5: couldn't this file already exist in the example with dummy values?

Author: I think committing `vars.auto.tfvars` files is a bit dangerous 😅 
In my setup, I use a global gitignore to avoid them in all repos.
Since the user will have to change the values anyway, I don't see much added benefit of including the file.
WDYT?

Reviewer 5: Makes sense, I also see that tfvars files are ignored in the repo.

insert_record_collection = "test"
ssh_public_key           = "ssh-rsa AAA...." # see below for how you can configure this
```

Configuring the `ssh_public_key` for the Azure VM:

```shell
cd ~/.ssh
ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096 -C "<your_email@example.com>" # to generate a keypair for the VM
export TF_VAR_ssh_public_key=$(cat ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub) # set the `ssh_public_key` with an env var instead of using the variable
```

**4\. Import the `mongodbatlas_federated_settings_org_config`**

replace `{federated_settings_id}` and `{org_id}` and run:

```shell
terraform init
terraform import mongodbatlas_federated_settings_org_config.this {federated_settings_id}-{org_id}
```

**5\. Review the Terraform plan.**

Execute the below command and ensure you are happy with the plan.

```shell
terraform plan
```

**6\. Execute the Terraform apply.**

Now execute the plan to provision the resources.

```shell
terraform apply
```

**7\. Connect to MongoDB to verify the record has been inserted.**

- Get the connection string by running `terraform output -json | jq -r '.user_test_conn_string.value'`
- Open your preferred tool, e.g., [MongoDB Compass](https://www.mongodb.com/products/tools/compass)

> - You should see a new record inserted in `{database}`, `{collection}`, e.g.: `{"_id": "6661790007beeb09e3f1b914", "hello": "world", "ts": "2024-06-06T08:53:20.125919"}`

Reviewer 5: probably good to specify that records are inserted into a collection named `test` inside a database named `test`

Author: Added in [4ae3870](https://github.com/mongodb/terraform-provider-mongodbatlas/pull/2334/commits/4ae3870bef3b4a04aaf571958a011181cb6949d8)

  - `{database}` depends on `insert_record_database` Terraform variable
  - `{collection}` depends on `insert_record_collection` Terraform variable

>   - It can be up to 2 min from `terraform apply` finishes until the record is inserted

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  - It can be up to 2 minutes after `terraform apply` finishes for the record to be inserted
```

**8\. Destroy the resources.**

> Once you are finished your testing, ensure you destroy the resources to avoid unnecessary Atlas and Azure chargescharges.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Once you are finished your testing, ensure you destroy the resources to avoid unnecessary Atlas and Azure charges.
```

> - Note that the organization will be unlinked from the [Federation Authentication](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/security/federated-authentication/#federation-management-console)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Note that the organization will be unlinked from the [Federated Authentication](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/security/federated-authentication/#federation-management-console).
```

```shell
terraform destroy
```

## Next Steps

> - Change the `pymongo_oidc.sh` to run your own app, start your `systemd` service, etc.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Change `pymongo_oidc.sh` to run your own app, start your `systemd` service, etc.
```

- Integrate with your identity provider of choice, ideas:
  - Github for accessing your Atlas Cluster from a Github Action
  - Gitlab for accessing your Atlas Cluster from a Gitlab Job

> - You can find more in [MongoDB Atlas Workload OIDC docs](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/workload-oidc/#prepare-your-external-identity-provider)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- For more information, see [MongoDB Atlas Workload OIDC docs](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/workload-oidc/#prepare-your-external-identity-provider).
```

## Troubleshooting

### Debugging the VM Instance

> 1. Get the ssh command for connecting: `terraform output -json | jq -r '.ssh_connection_string.value'` and connect

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Get the ssh command for connecting: `terraform output -json | jq -r '.ssh_connection_string.value'` and connect.
```

> 2. Verify the python script exist: `ls -la ~`, should show `pymongo_oidc.py`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Verify the python script exist: `ls -la ~` should show `pymongo_oidc.py`.
```
